The unity structure.
This course has broken into different learning tracks.
In theory, we'll take a step back and look at some of the fundamentals of software and game design.
When talking about the ED, we'll look at Unity, the ED tool itself, which is what we as developers
open and use as our software.
And in code sections, we'll look at the C-sharp programming language and how it applies to unity game
development.
Let's start with theory.
The software development lifecycle includes many stages, taking us from an idea to a finished product.
This includes requirements, analysis, planning the project, designing the concept and carries on
to development, testing and deployment.
While unity is a powerful tool across many of these stages, we focus on using unity in the development,
testing and deployment phases.
Inside the world of unity.
The concepts are structured as follows Within a project you have one or more scenes inside each scene.
You have game objects with components attached.
Those components may handle things like the mesh renderer, the collider, audio, rigid body for physics,
particle systems, and of course custom scripting.
Game object is a fundamental piece of the puzzle within unity.
That is everything that is visual and non visual onto which we hang our custom components and Unity's
built in components as well.
Take a look at this gameplay screenshot as an example.
Here we have a game scene that is broken up into several different prefabs.
You can think of a prefab as a game object with one or more components that's stored for reuse.
For example, we see multiple coins here, each with a unique position and rotation.
However, the coin has some common features as well perhaps functionality, collision detection, how
it's rendered and those common features are held in the prefab when organizing your project and deciding
on the structure.
Teams often choose between scenes and prefabs for high level organization.
Game object is the fundamental concept within any scene.
And while there can be many different components on a game object, the transform component is ever
present the transform component stores and manipulates aspects of how that object sits in the world.
Whether the object has graphics or not, it has a transform object.
The code we use is the language of instructions for the software.
Unity's historical roots relate to the mono project.
This was an open source version of the DOT net framework.
You'll still see the term mono used a bit through the Unity API, including the mono behavior.
While in the past Unity offered several different programming languages.
C-sharp is the only programming choice now, and while Unity supports C-sharp, it doesn't depend on
the DOT net framework.
Unity's version of C-sharp is quite robust and features a lot of different data, concepts and structures.
The main namespaces we use inside Unity is the Unity engine for runtime code.
The Unity editor for Edit Time Code and the System namespace, which includes a lot of different functionality
not specifically related to unity, but quite helpful, including math, libraries, etc..
Here's an example of a custom script in C-sharp for use in unity.
Starting from the top, we see using statements.
These bring in namespaces that we need to use in this particular class file.
Then we see a namespace that helps us declare and organize where this code sits in our project.
Next, we declare the public class or interface that defines this type.
Notice here we're extending or inheriting monarch behavior.
Now, from within this scope, we can access all the functionality of monarch behavior as well.
Some specific unity features of note here.
The ability to serialize field using the serialized field attribute.
This can take a public value or private value and render it out to the unity inspector so that while
the live game is playing, we can tweak that setting.
This helps in prototyping and gameplay design.
The monitor behavior comes with many key events you can tap into by naming one of your methods.
Awake.
You capture the event of when that object is first awoken in the world.
This happens just once afterwards.
The start method is called here.
It's good to set up any dependencies with any other objects and then the update method is called every
frame thereafter.
This is a great place to do input, logic and updating graphics.
These are just a few of the events or method overrides you can take advantage of, but certainly these
are some of the most important thanks.